
=head1 NAME

wview-rrd - Interactive RRDTool graphs for weewx/wview weather stations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<wview-rrd> updates Round Robin Database files from a local weewx or
wview SQLite database file.  B<cgi-bin/weather> then generates
interactive graphs of the weather data from these RRD files to a web
browser.

See B<EXAMPLES> below for a live example web site.

Features of the CGI web interface include:

  * show all weather variables in high resolution time series graphs
  * change displayed units, with configurable defaults
  * zoom the displayed time frame: year, month, week, day, hour, custom
  * scroll the displayed time frame of the graphs left/right
  * change graph plot size (width x height)
  * change data resolution - detailed, hourly, daily and so on
  * at wider resolutions, show average line in min/max area
  * add graphs of extra sensor data
  * show (min < avg < max) last, of plotted data in the legend
  * show many times of a graph at once (just click a graph)
  * export the data of any graph to csv, xml, json or see RRD code
  * all widgets / links have mouse balloon tooltip clues

=head1 INSTALLATION

Install the data presentation and updater code:

	edit cgi-bin/weather.pl config file as needed

	cp -p cgi-bin/* to your web server's cgi-bin/ directory

	cp -p bin/* to /usr/bin/

	cp -p user/* /usr/share/weewx/user/ # FOR WEEWX ONLY

http://localhost/cgi-bin/weather should now show an interface, but
with broken graphs since the RRD files don't yet exist.  Click y and
<< a couple times to zoom out to a 4 year view.  You can refresh this
in a moment to see the data coming in as you run the data collector.

These graphs track accumulated rain per year, automatically resetting
to 0 at the beginning of each year.  So, you can optionally find out
how many inches of rain you had in the year up to the start date of
your station.  This needs passed to wview-rrd when it first generates
the RRD files.  If you don't know, the default value is 0.

Run as root, passing starting inches of rain as the only argument:

	wview-rrd 6.17 # where "6.17" is inches of rain to start, or 0

Be patient - this first run will take a while as all your station data
is stored in the RRD files.  Refresh the weather URL above to see the
data coming in.  Confirm 3 RRD files are created in the database
directory, along side the weewx.sdb or wview-archive.sdb source file.
After finished, run wview-rrd again and it should complete much faster
as it adds only new data.

To set up automated updates of the RRD files:

FOR WEEWX: append the new user service to one line of weewx.conf:
 <	archive_services = weewx.engine.StdArchive
 >	archive_services = weewx.engine.StdArchive, user.updaterrd.UpdateRRD
then /etc/init.d/weewx restart 

FOR WVIEW: add one line to /etc/wview/post-generate.sh:
	wview-rrd > /tmp/wview-rrd.log 2>&1 &

RRD files should now update immediately after the database.  A simple
rm *.rrd can recreate them at any time.  Remove and regenerate is
needed only if you have edited data in the source database.

=head1 EXAMPLES

http://twitham.homelinux.org/cgi-bin/weather

=head1 SEE ALSO

rrdtool(1), http://weewx.com/

=head1 AUTHOR

Timothy D Witham <twitham@sbcglobal.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2020 Timothy D Witham.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
